CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

## 🐋 Setup with a `Dev Container`

If you use [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) as your editor
and you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com) installed,
you can use the [Dev Container](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers)
to get a development environment up and running quickly.

This way you don't have to install any specific dependencies on your local machine.
The whole development environment will be running inside a Docker container.

If you open the project in Visual Studio Code,
you should be prompted to reopen the project in a Dev Container.
You can also click
[here](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode://ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers/cloneInVolume?url=https://github.com/quickplates/generic)
or on the badge below to tell Visual Studio Code to open the project in a Dev Container.

<div align="center">

[![Open in Dev Container](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Dev%20Containers&message=Open&color=blue&logo=visualstudiocode)](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode://ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers/cloneInVolume?url=https://github.com/quickplates/generic)

</div>

## ❄️ Setup with `Nix`

If you don't want to use the Dev Container,
you can also use [Nix](https://nixos.org) to setup your development environment.
`flake.nix` contains the configuration of development shells.
`Nix` will automatically install all dependencies and setup the environment for you.

All you need to do is have Nix installed and run the following command:

```sh
nix develop
```

or in case you don't have experimental features enabled globally:

```sh
nix --extra-experimental-features 'nix-command flakes' develop
```

This will drop you into a new shell with all dependencies installed.
If you want to exit the shell, just type `exit` or press `Ctrl + D`.

## 📁 Using `direnv`

If you have [`direnv`](https://direnv.net) installed,
and you run `direnv allow` in the project root,
you will automatically enter the development shell
whenever you enter the project directory.
Additionally, `direnv` will rebuild the development shell in background
whenever there are changes to files that are used to build the shell.

If you use the Dev Container setup,
you will have the `direnv` extension installed in Visual Studio Code.
This should automatically ask you to allow `direnv` when you open the project.

## 🟦 Using `Task`

This project uses [`Task`](https://taskfile.dev) to manage development tasks.
You can find all the tasks in `Taskfile.dist.yaml`.
You can create your own `Taskfile.yaml` to include your own tasks.

To see all available tasks, you can run:

```sh
task --list
```

If you use the Dev Container setup,
you will have the `Task` extension installed in Visual Studio Code.
This will allow you to run tasks from the editor.

## 🧹 Using `Trunk`

This project uses [`Trunk`](https://trunk.io) to help with formatting and linting.
This way all developers use the same tools and configurations.

There are multiple ways in which you can use `Trunk`.
Here are the most common ones, using `Task`:

- `task fmt` - Run formatting on all changed files
- `task lint` - Run linting on all changed files

Linting is automatically run on every pull request and push to the `main` branch.
You can find the GitHub Actions workflow that does this in `.github/workflows/lint.yml`.

If you use the Dev Container setup,
you will have the `Trunk` extension installed in Visual Studio Code.
`Trunk` will be set as the default formatter for all files,
so you can format with it by using any editor formatting features.

## 🧪 Testing

This project uses [`pytest`](https://pytest.org) for testing.
You can find all tests in the `tests` directory.

To run all tests, you can run:

```sh
task test
```

Commit message:

Improved info about fetching changes

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

## 🐋 Setup with a `Dev Container`

If you use [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) as your editor
and you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com) installed,
you can use the [Dev Container](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers)
to get a development environment up and running quickly.

This way you don't have to install any specific dependencies on your local machine.
The whole development environment will be running inside a Docker container.

If you open the project in Visual Studio Code,
you should be prompted to reopen the project in a Dev Container.
You can also click
[here](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode://ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers/cloneInVolume?url=https://github.com/quickplates/generic)
or on the badge below to tell Visual Studio Code to open the project in a Dev Container.

<div align="center">

[![Open in Dev Container](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Dev%20Containers&message=Open&color=blue&logo=visualstudiocode)](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode://ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers/cloneInVolume?url=https://github.com/quickplates/generic)

</div>

## ❄️ Setup with `Nix`

If you don't want to use the Dev Container,
you can also use [Nix](https://nixos.org) to setup your development environment.
`flake.nix` contains the configuration of development shells.
`Nix` will automatically install all dependencies and setup the environment for you.

All you need to do is have Nix installed and run the following command:

```sh
nix develop
```

or in case you don't have experimental features enabled globally:

```sh
nix --extra-experimental-features 'nix-command flakes' develop
```

This will drop you into a new shell with all dependencies installed.
If you want to exit the shell, just type `exit` or press `Ctrl + D`.

## 📁 Using `direnv`

If you have [`direnv`](https://direnv.net) installed,
and you run `direnv allow` in the project root,
you will automatically enter the development shell
whenever you enter the project directory.
Additionally, `direnv` will rebuild the development shell in background
whenever there are changes to files that are used to build the shell.

If you use the Dev Container setup,
you will have the `direnv` extension installed in Visual Studio Code.
This should automatically ask you to allow `direnv` when you open the project.

## 🟦 Using `Task`

This project uses [`Task`](https://taskfile.dev) to manage development tasks.
You can find all the tasks in `Taskfile.dist.yaml`.
You can create your own `Taskfile.yaml` to include your own tasks.

To see all available tasks, you can run:

```sh
task --list
```

If you use the Dev Container setup,
you will have the `Task` extension installed in Visual Studio Code.
This will allow you to run tasks from the editor.

## 🔄 Fetching template updates

The template can change over time.
To fetch the latest changes from the template,
make sure you have a clean working tree and
then run the following command:

```sh
task fetch-template
```

There might be conflicts if you have made changes to the templated files yourself.
I recommend that you choose to overwrite the files with the template changes
and then manually review the changes using `git`.

## 🧹 Using `Trunk`

This project uses [`Trunk`](https://trunk.io) to help with formatting and linting.
This way all developers use the same tools and configurations.

There are multiple ways in which you can use `Trunk`.
Here are the most common ones, using `Task`:

- `task fmt` - Run formatting on all changed files
- `task lint` - Run linting on all changed files

Linting is automatically run on every pull request and push to the `main` branch.
You can find the GitHub Actions workflow that does this in `.github/workflows/lint.yml`.

If you use the Dev Container setup,
you will have the `Trunk` extension installed in Visual Studio Code.
`Trunk` will be set as the default formatter for all files,
so you can format with it by using any editor formatting features.

## 🧪 Testing

This project uses [`pytest`](https://pytest.org) for testing.
You can find all tests in the `tests` directory.

To run all tests, you can run:

```sh
task test
```
